Intel Research Use License Agreement
By using or distributing any portion or element of the Material, You agree to be bound by this Agreement.

1 - Definitions.
“Agreement” means the terms and conditions for use, reproduction and distribution of the Material set forth herein.

“Material” means datasets, models, model weights, or other software Intel makes available to you under this Agreement.

“You” or “Your” means you, or your employer or any other person or entity (if you are entering into this Agreement on such person or entity’s behalf), of the age required under applicable laws, rules or regulations to provide legal consentand that has legal authority to bind your employer or such other person or entity if you are entering in this Agreement on their behalf.

2 - License. Intel grants to You, a limited, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, license under Intel’s copyrights in the Material, to use, reproduce, display, and distribute the Material solely for research purposes.

2.1 - Restrictions Except as authorized above, You will not: (a) use Material in any other way; (b)reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the Material, or (c) use Material to violate or aid in the violation of any international human right.

2.2 - No Implied License. Except for the express license in Section 2, Intel does not grant You any express or implied license under any legal theory. Any other licenses from Intel require additional consideration. Nothing in this Agreement requires Intel to grant any additional license.

3 - Third party programs. Your use of certain third-party software with or within the Material is subject to your compliance with licensing you obtain directly from that third-party. A listing of any such third-party software may accompany the Material.

4 - No Warranty. The Material is provided “as is,” without any express or implied warranty of any kind including warranties of merchantability, non-infringement, title, or fitness for a particular purpose. The Material may be pre-release and may not be fully functional. Intel is not required to maintain, update, or support any Material. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or distributing the Material and assume any risks associated with Your use of the Material.

5 - Limitation on Liability. IN NO EVENT WILL INTEL BE LIABLE TO YOU UNDER ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY FOR ANY LOST PROFITS OR DAMAGES (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECULATIVE, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES) WHATSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT (EVEN IF INTEL HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES OR DAMAGES).

6 - Term and Termination. The term of this Agreement will commence upon Your acceptance of this Agreement or access to the Material and will continue in full force and effect until terminated in accordance with the terms and conditions herein. Intel may terminate this Agreement if You are in breach of any term or condition of this Agreement. Upon termination of this Agreement, You shall delete and cease use of the Material. Sections 4, 5, and 7 will survive the termination of this Agreement.

7 - Governing Law and Jurisdiction. All disputes will be governed by the laws of the United States of America and the State of Delaware without reference to conflict of law principles and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state or federal courts sitting in the State of Delaware, and each party agrees that it submits to the personal jurisdiction and venue of those courts and waives any objections.