SUN PUBLIC LICENSE Version 1.01. Definitions.1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making theCovered Code available to a third party.1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes tothe creation of Modifications.1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original Code,prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications madeby that particular Contributor.1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or thecombination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each caseincluding portions thereof and corresponding documentation releasedwith the source code.1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generallyaccepted in the software development community for the electronictransfer of data.1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than SourceCode.1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identified asthe Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by ExhibitA.1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code orportions thereof with code not governed by the terms of thisLicense.1.8. "License" means this document.1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximumextent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant orsubsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from thesubstance or structure of either the Original Code or any previousModifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, aModification is:A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containingOriginal Code or previous Modifications.B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code orprevious Modifications.1.10. "Original Code"../ means Source Code of computer software codewhich is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A asOriginal Code, and which, at the time of its release under thisLicense is not already Covered Code governed by this License.1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned orhereafter acquired, including without limitation, method, process, andapparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.1.11. "Source Code"../ means the preferred form of the Covered Codeformaking modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plusany associated documentation, interface definition files, scripts usedto control compilation and installation of an Executable, or sourcecode differential comparisons against either the Original Code oranother well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor'schoice. The Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form,provided the appropriate decompression or de-archiving software iswidely available for no charge.1.12. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entityexercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, thisLicense or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1.For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, iscontrolled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes ofthis definition, "control"../ means (a) the power, direct or indirect,tocause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contractor otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of theoutstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.2. Source Code License.2.1 The Initial Developer Grant.The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual propertyclaims:(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent ortrademark) Licensable by Initial Developer to use, reproduce, modify,display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original Code (orportions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or as part of aLarger Work; and(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using or selling ofOriginal Code, to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and offer forsale, and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Code (or portionsthereof).(c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are effectiveon the date Initial Developer first distributes Original Code underthe terms of this License.(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license isgranted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2)separate from the Original Code; or 3) for infringements causedby:i) the modification of the Original Code or ii) the combination of theOriginal Code with other software or devices.2.2. Contributor Grant.Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributorhereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patentortrademark) Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify,display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications createdby such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an unmodifiedbasis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code and/or as part of aLarger Work; andb) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling ofModifications made by that Contributor either alone and/or incombination with its Contributor Version (or portions of suchcombination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, and/orotherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that Contributor (orportions thereof); and 2) the combination of Modifications made bythat Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions of suchcombination).(c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effectiveon the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of the CoveredCode.(d) notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license isgranted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from theContributor Version; 2) separate from the Contributor Version; 3) forinfringements caused by: i) third party modifications of ContributorVersion or ii) the combination of Modifications made by thatContributor with other software (except as part of the ContributorVersion) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims infringed byCovered Code in the absence of Modifications made by thatContributor.3. Distribution Obligations.3.1. Application of License.The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute aregoverned by the terms of this License, including without limitationSection 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may bedistributed only under the terms of this License or a future versionof this License released under Section 6.1, and You must include acopy of this License with every copy of the Source Code Youdistribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Codeversion that alters or restricts the applicable version of thisLicense or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may includean additional document offering the additional rights described inSection 3.5.3.2. Availability of Source Code.Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must bemade available in Source Code form under the terms of this Licenseeither on the same media as an Executable version or via an acceptedElectronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made anExecutable version available; and if made available via ElectronicDistribution Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12)months after the date it initially became available, or at least six(6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modificationhas been made available to such recipients. You are responsible forensuring that the Source Code version remains available even if theElectronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.3.3. Description of Modifications.You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain afile documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code andthe date of any change. You must include a prominent statement thatthe Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from OriginalCode provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of theInitial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in anExecutable version or related documentation in which You describe theorigin or ownership of the Covered Code.3.4. Intellectual Property Matters.(a) Third Party Claims.If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party'sintellectual property rights is required to exercise the rightsgranted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2, Contributormust include a text file with the Source Code distribution titled"../LEGAL'' which describes the claim and the party making the claim insufficient detail that a recipient will know whom to contact. IfContributor obtains such knowledge after the Modification is madeavailable as described in Section 3.2, Contributor shall promptlymodify the LEGAL file in all copies Contributor makes availablethereafter and shall take other steps (such as notifying appropriatemailing lists or newsgroups) reasonably calculated to inform those whoreceived the Covered Code that new knowledge has been obtained.(b) Contributor APIs.If Contributor's Modifications include an application programminginterface ("API"../) and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenseswhich are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor mustalso include this information in the LEGAL file.(c) Representations.Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to Section3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's Modificationsare Contributor's original creation(s) and/or Contributor hassufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by thisLicense.3.5. Required Notices.You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the SourceCode. If it is not possible to put such notice in a particular SourceCode file due to its structure, then You must include such notice in alocation (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likelyto look for such a notice. If You created one or more Modification(s)You may add your name as a Contributor to the notice described inExhibit A. You must also duplicate this License in any documentationfor the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights or ownershiprights relating to Covered Code. You may choose to offer, and tocharge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liabilityobligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, Youmay do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the InitialDeveloper or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear thanany such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation isoffered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the InitialDeveloper and every Contributor for any liability incurred by theInitial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if therequirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code,and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version ofthe Covered Code is available under the terms of this License,including a description of how and where You have fulfilled theobligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously includedin any notice in an Executable version, related documentation orcollateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to theCovered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of CoveredCode or ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which maycontain terms different from this License, provided that You are incompliance with the terms of this License and that the license for theExecutable version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient'srights in the Source Code version from the rights set forth in thisLicense. If You distribute the Executable version under a differentlicense You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differfrom this License are offered by You alone, not by the InitialDeveloper or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify theInitial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred bythe Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any suchterms You offer.3.7. Larger Works.You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with othercodenot governed by the terms of this License and distribute the LargerWork as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure therequirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of thisLicense with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due tostatute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply withthe terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b)describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such descriptionmust be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and mustbe included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to theextent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must besufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able tounderstand it.5. Application of this License.This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer hasattached the notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered Code.6. Versions of the License.6.1. New Versions.Sun Microsystems, Inc. ("Sun") may publish revised and/or new versionsof the License from time to time. Each version will be given adistinguishing version number.6.2. Effect of New Versions.Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version oftheLicense, You may always continue to use it under the terms of thatversion. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the termsof any subsequent version of the License published by Sun. No oneother than Sun has the right to modify the terms applicable to CoveredCode created under this License.6.3. Derivative Works.If You create or use a modified version of this License (which youmayonly do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Codegoverned by this License), You must: (a) rename Your license so thatthe phrases "Sun," "Sun Public License," or "SPL"../ or any confusinglysimilar phrase do not appear in your license (except to note that yourlicense differs from this License) and (b) otherwise make it clearthat Your version of the license contains terms which differ from theSun Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial Developer,Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in Exhibit Ashall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications of thisLicense.)7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "../AS IS'' BASIS,WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OFDEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODEIS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT,YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THECOST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMEROF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OFANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THISDISCLAIMER.8. TERMINATION.8.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminateautomatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to curesuch breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. Allsublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shallsurvive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by theirnature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this Licenseshall survive.8.2. If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringementclaim (excluding declaratory judgment actions) against Initial Developeror a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whomYou file such action is referred to as "Participant") allegingthat:(a) such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectlyinfringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by suchParticipant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this Licenseshall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively,unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i)agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonableroyalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by suchParticipant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect tothe Contributor Version against such Participant. If within 60 daysof notice, a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are notmutually agreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claimis not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to You underSections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration ofthe 60 day notice period specified above.(b) any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant'sContributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, thenany rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b)and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You first made, used,sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by thatParticipant.8.3. If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participantalleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly orindirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such asby license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patentinfringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licensesgranted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be takeninto account in determining the amount or value of any payment orlicense.8.4. In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above,allend user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers)which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunderprior to termination shall survive termination.9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIALDEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE,OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FORANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANYCHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHERCOMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEENINFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OFLIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURYRESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAWPROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THEEXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SOTHIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in48C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer software"and "commercial computer software documentation,"../ as such terms areused in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R.12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), allU.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those rightsset forth herein.11. MISCELLANEOUS.This License represents the complete agreement concerning subjectmatter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to beunenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extentnecessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed byCalifornia law provisions (except to the extent applicable law, ifany, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions.With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen of,or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the UnitedStates of America, any litigation relating to this License shall besubject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the NorthernDistrict of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County,California, with the losing party responsible for costs, includingwithout limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees andexpenses. The application of the United Nations Convention onContracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contractshall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to thisLicense.12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party isresponsible for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly,out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree towork with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute suchresponsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended orshall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as?Multiple-Licensed?. ?Multiple-Licensed? means that the InitialDeveloper permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code underYour choice of the alternative licenses, if any, specified by theInitial Developer in the file described in Exhibit A.Exhibit A -Sun Public License Notice.The contents of this file are subject to the Sun Public LicenseVersion 1.0 (the License); you may not use this file except incompliance with the License. A copy of the License is available athttp://www.sun.com/The Original Code is _________________. The Initial Developer of theOriginal Code is ___________. Portions created by ______ are Copyright(C)_________. All Rights Reserved.Contributor(s): ______________________________________.Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the termsof the _____ license (the ?[___] License?), in which case theprovisions of [______] License are applicable instead of those above.If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only under theterms of the [____] License and not to allow others to use yourversion of this file under the SPL, indicate your decision by deletingthe provisions above and replace them with the notice and otherprovisions required by the [___] License. If you do not delete theprovisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file undereither the SPL or the [___] License.[NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text ofthe notices in the Source Code files of the Original Code. You shoulduse the text of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in theOriginal Code Source Code for Your Modifications.]