ERLANG PUBLIC LICENSEÂVersion 1.11. Definitions.1.1. ``Contributor'' means each entity that creates or contributes tothe creation of Modifications.1.2. ``Contributor Version'' means the combination of the OriginalCode, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modificationsmade by that particular Contributor.1.3. ``Covered Code'' means the Original Code or Modifications or thecombination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each caseincluding portions thereof.1.4. ``Electronic Distribution Mechanism'' means a mechanism generallyaccepted in the software development community for the electronictransfer of data.1.5. ``Executable'' means Covered Code in any form other than SourceCode.1.6. ``Initial Developer'' means the individual or entity identifiedas the Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by ExhibitA.1.7. ``Larger Work'' means a work which combines Covered Code orportions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.1.8. ``License'' means this document.1.9. ``Modifications'' means any addition to or deletion from thesubstance or structure of either the Original Code or any previousModifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, aModification is:A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containingOriginal Code or previous Modifications.B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code orprevious Modifications.1.10. ``Original Code'' means Source Code of computer software codewhich is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A asOriginal Code, and which, at the time of its release under thisLicense is not already Covered Code governed by this License.1.11. ``Source Code'' means the preferred form of the Covered Code formaking modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plusany associated interface definition files, scripts used to controlcompilation and installation of an Executable, or a list of sourcecode differential comparisons against either the Original Code oranother well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor'schoice. The Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form,provided the appropriate decompression or de-archiving software iswidely available for no charge.1.12. ``You'' means an individual or a legal entity exercising rightsunder, and complying with all of the terms of, this License. For legalentities,``You'' includes any entity which controls, is controlled by,or is under common control with You. For purposes of this definition,``control'' means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause thedirection or management of such entity, whether by contract orotherwise, or (b) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of theoutstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.2. Source Code License.2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual propertyclaims:(a) to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense anddistribute the Original Code (or portions thereof) with or withoutModifications, or as part of a Larger Work; and(b) under patents now or hereafter owned or controlled by InitialDeveloper, to make, have made, use and sell (``Utilize'') theOriginal Code (or portions thereof), but solely to the extent thatany such patent is reasonably necessary to enable You to Utilizethe Original Code (or portions thereof) and not to any greaterextent that may be necessary to Utilize further Modifications orcombinations.2.2. Contributor Grant.Each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual propertyclaims:(a) to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense anddistribute the Modifications created by such Contributor (orportions thereof) either on an unmodified basis, with otherModifications, as Covered Code or as part of a Larger Work; and(b) under patents now or hereafter owned or controlled by Contributor,to Utilize the Contributor Version (or portions thereof), butsolely to the extent that any such patent is reasonably necessaryto enable You to Utilize the Contributor Version (or portionsthereof), and not to any greater extent that may be necessary toUtilize further Modifications or combinations.3. Distribution Obligations.3.1. Application of License.The Modifications which You contribute are governed by the terms ofthis License, including without limitation Section 2.2. The SourceCode version of Covered Code may be distributed only under the termsof this License, and You must include a copy of this License withevery copy of the Source Code You distribute. You may not offer orimpose any terms on any Source Code version that alters or restrictsthe applicable version of this License or the recipients' rightshereunder. However, You may include an additional document offeringthe additional rights described in Section 3.5.3.2. Availability of Source Code.Any Modification which You contribute must be made available in SourceCode form under the terms of this License either on the same media asan Executable version or via an accepted Electronic DistributionMechanism to anyone to whom you made an Executable version available;and if made available via Electronic Distribution Mechanism, mustremain available for at least twelve (12) months after the date itinitially became available, or at least six (6) months after asubsequent version of that particular Modification has been madeavailable to such recipients. You are responsible for ensuring thatthe Source Code version remains available even if the ElectronicDistribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.3.3. Description of Modifications.You must cause all Covered Code to which you contribute to contain afile documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code andthe date of any change. You must include a prominent statement thatthe Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from OriginalCode provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of theInitial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in anExecutable version or related documentation in which You describe theorigin or ownership of the Covered Code.3.4. Intellectual Property Matters(a) Third Party Claims.If You have knowledge that a party claims an intellectual propertyright in particular functionality or code (or its utilizationunder this License), you must include a text file with the sourcecode distribution titled ``LEGAL'' which describes the claim andthe party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipientwill know whom to contact. If you obtain such knowledge after Youmake Your Modification available as described in Section 3.2, Youshall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies You makeavailable thereafter and shall take other steps (such as notifyingappropriate mailing lists or newsgroups) reasonably calculated toinform those who received the Covered Code that new knowledge hasbeen obtained.(b) Contributor APIs.If Your Modification is an application programming interface andYou own or control patents which are reasonably necessary toimplement that API, you must also include this information in theLEGAL file.3.5. Required Notices.You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the SourceCode, and this License in any documentation for the Source Code, whereYou describe recipients' rights relating to Covered Code. If Youcreated one or more Modification(s), You may add your name as aContributor to the notice described in Exhibit A. If it is notpossible to put such notice in a particular Source Code file due toits structure, then you must include such notice in a location (suchas a relevant directory file) where a user would be likely to look forsuch a notice. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for,warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations to one or morerecipients of Covered Code. However, You may do so only on Your ownbehalf, and not on behalf of the Initial Developer or anyContributor. You must make it absolutely clear than any such warranty,support, indemnity or liability obligation is offered by You alone,and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and everyContributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer orsuch Contributor as a result of warranty, support, indemnity orliability terms You offer.3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if therequirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code,and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version ofthe Covered Code is available under the terms of this License,including a description of how and where You have fulfilled theobligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously includedin any notice in an Executable version, related documentation orcollateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to theCovered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of CoveredCode under a license of Your choice, which may contain terms differentfrom this License, provided that You are in compliance with the termsof this License and that the license for the Executable version doesnot attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights in the SourceCode version from the rights set forth in this License. If Youdistribute the Executable version under a different license You mustmake it absolutely clear that any terms which differ from this Licenseare offered by You alone, not by the Initial Developer or anyContributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer andevery Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developeror such Contributor as a result of any such terms You offer.3.7. Larger Works.You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other codenot governed by the terms of this License and distribute the LargerWork as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure therequirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of thisLicense with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to statuteor regulation then You must: (a) comply with the terms of this Licenseto the maximum extent possible; and (b) describe the limitations andthe code they affect. Such description must be included in the LEGALfile described in Section 3.4 and must be included with alldistributions of the Source Code. Except to the extent prohibited bystatute or regulation, such description must be sufficiently detailedfor a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understand it.5. Application of this License.This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer hasattached the notice in Exhibit A, and to related Covered Code.6. CONNECTION TO MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSEThis Erlang License is a derivative work of the Mozilla PublicLicense, Version 1.0. It contains terms which differ from the MozillaPublic License, Version 1.0.7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN ``AS IS'' BASIS,WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OFDEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ORNON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OFTHE COVERED CODE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVEIN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHERCONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR ORCORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PARTOF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDEREXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.8. TERMINATION.This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminateautomatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to curesuch breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. Allsublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shallsurvive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by theirnature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this Licenseshall survive.9. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITYAny utilization of Covered Code shall not cause the Initial Developeror any Contributor to be liable for any damages (neither direct norindirect).10. MISCELLANEOUSThis License represents the complete agreement concerning the subjectmatter hereof. If any provision is held to be unenforceable, suchprovision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make itenforceable. This License shall be construed by and in accordance withthe substantive laws of Sweden. Any dispute, controversy or claimarising out of or relating to this License, or the breach, terminationor invalidity thereof, shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdictionof Swedish courts, with the Stockholm City Court as the firstinstance.EXHIBIT A.``The contents of this file are subject to the Erlang Public License,Version 1.1, (the "License"); you may not use this file except incompliance with the License. You should have received a copy of theErlang Public License along with this software. If not, it can beretrieved via the world wide web at http://www.erlang.org/.Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. Seethe License for the specific language governing rights and limitationsunder the License.The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Ericsson Utvecklings AB.Portions created by Ericsson are Copyright 1999, Ericsson UtvecklingsAB. All Rights Reserved.''