OPEN PUBLIC LICENSEVersion 1.01. Definitions.1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes tothe creation of Modifications.1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the OriginalCode, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and theModifications made by that particular Contributor.1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or thecombination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each caseincluding portions thereof.1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanismgenerally accepted in the software development community for theelectronic transfer of data.1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than SourceCode.1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identifiedas the Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required byExhibit A.1.7. "Larger Work" means a work, which combines Covered Code orportions thereof with code not governed by the terms of thisLicense.1.8. "License" means this document and the corresponding addendumdescribed in section 6.4 below.1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from thesubstance or structure of either the Original Code or any previousModifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files,a Modification is:A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a filecontaining Original Code or previous Modifications.B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Codeor previous Modifications.1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software codewhich is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit Aas Original Code, and which, at the time of its release under thisLicense is not already Covered Code governed by this License.1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Codefor making modifications to it, including all modules it contains,plus any associated interface definition files, scripts used tocontrol compilation and installation of an Executable, or a list ofsource code differential comparisons against either the OriginalCode or another well known, available Covered Code of theContributor's choice. The Source Code can be in a compressed orarchival form, provided the appropriate decompression orde-archiving software is widely available for no charge.1.12. "You" means an individual or a legal entity exercising rightsunder, and complying with all of the terms of, this License or afuture version of this License issued under Section 6.1. For legalentities, "You'' includes any entity which controls, is controlledby, or is under common control with You. For purposes of thisdefinition, "control'' means (a) the power, direct or indirect, tocause the direction or management of such entity, whether bycontract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of fifty percent (50%) ormore of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of suchentity.1.13 "License Author" means Lutris Technologies, Inc.2. Source Code License.2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.The Initial Developer hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free,non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual propertyclaims:(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent ortrademark) to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,sublicense and distribute the Original Code (or portionsthereof) with or without Modifications, or as part of aLarger Work; and(b) under patents now or hereafter owned or controlled byInitial Developer, to make, have made, use and sell (``offerto sell and import'') the Original Code (or portionsthereof), but solely to the extent that any such patent isreasonably necessary to enable You to Utilize the OriginalCode (or portions thereof) and not to any greater extentthat may be necessary to Utilize further Modifications orcombinations.2.2. Contributor Grant.Each Contributor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free,non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual propertyclaims:(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent ortrademark) to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,sublicense and distribute the Modifications created by suchContributor (or portions thereof) either on an unmodifiedbasis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code or as partof a Larger Work; and(b) under patents now or hereafter owned or controlled byContributor, to to make, have made, use and sell (``offer tosell and import'') the Contributor Version (or portionsthereof), but solely to the extent that any such patent isreasonably necessary to enable You to Utilize theContributor Version (or portions thereof), and not to anygreater extent that may be necessary to Utilize furtherModifications or combinations3. Distribution Obligations.3.1. Application of License.The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute aregoverned by the terms of this License, including without limitationSection 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may bedistributed only under the terms of this License or a futureversion of this License released under Section 6.1, and You mustinclude a copy of this License with every copy of the Source CodeYou distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any SourceCode version that alters or restricts the applicable version ofthis License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You mayinclude an additional document offering the additional rightsdescribed in Section 3.5.3.2. Availability of Source Code.Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute mustbe made available, prior to any use, except for internaldevelopment and practice, in Source Code form under the terms ofthis License either on the same media as an Executable version orvia an accepted Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whomyou made an Executable version available; and if made available viaElectronic Distribution Mechanism, must remain available for atleast twelve (12) months after the date it initially becameavailable, or at least six (6) months after a subsequent version ofthat particular Modification has been made available to suchrecipients. You shall notify the Initial Developer of theModification and the location of the Source Code via the contactmeans provided for in the Developer Specific license. InitialDeveloper will be acting as maintainer of the Source Code and mayprovide an Electronic Distribution mechanism for the Modificationto be made available.3.3. Description of Modifications.You must cause all Covered Code to which you contribute to containa file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Codeand the date of any change. You must include a prominent statementthat the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, fromOriginal Code provided by the Initial Developer and including thename of the Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) inany notice in an Executable version or related documentation inwhich You describe the origin or ownership of the Covered Code.3.4. Intellectual Property Matters(a) Third Party Claims.If You have knowledge that a party claims an intellectualproperty right in particular functionality or code (or itsutilization under this License), you must include a textfile with the source code distribution titled "LEGAL" whichdescribes the claim and the party making the claim insufficient detail that a recipient will know whom tocontact. If you obtain such knowledge after You make YourModification available as described in Section 3.2, Youshall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies You makeavailable thereafter and shall take other steps (such asnotifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups)reasonably calculated to inform those who received theCovered Code that new knowledge has been obtained.(b) Representations.Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant toSection 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes thatContributor's Modifications are Contributor's originalcreation(s) and/or Contributor has sufficient rights togrant the rights conveyed by this License.3.5. Required Notices.You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of theSource Code, and this License in any documentation for the SourceCode, where You describe recipients' rights relating to CoveredCode. If You created one or more Modification(s), You may add yourname as a Contributor to the notice described in Exhibit A. If itis not possible to put such notice in a particular Source Code filedue to its structure, then you must include such notice in alocation (such as a relevant directory file) where a user would belikely to look for such a notice. You may choose to offer, and tocharge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liabilityobligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, Youmay do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the InitialDeveloper or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clearthat any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligationis offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify theInitial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurredby the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result ofwarranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if therequirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that CoveredCode, and if You include a notice stating that the Source Codeversion of the Covered Code is available under the terms of thisLicense, including a description of how and where You havefulfilled the obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must beconspicuously included in any notice in an Executable version,related documentation or collateral in which You describerecipients' rights relating to the Covered Code. You may distributethe Executable version of Covered Code under a license of Yourchoice, which may contain terms different from this License,provided that You are in compliance with the terms of this Licenseand that the license for the Executable version does not attempt tolimit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code versionfrom the rights set forth in this License. If You distribute theExecutable version under a different license You must make itabsolutely clear that any terms which differ from this License areoffered by You alone, not by the Initial Developer or anyContributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developerand every Contributor for any liability incurred by the InitialDeveloper or such Contributor as a result of any such terms Youoffer. If you distribute executable versions containing CoveredCode, you must reproduce the notice in Exhibit B in thedocumentation and/or other materials provided with the product.3.7. Larger Works.You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with othercode not governed by the terms of this License and distribute theLarger Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make surethe requirements of this License are fulfilled for the CoveredCode.4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of thisLicense with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due tostatute or regulation then You must: (a) comply with the terms ofthis License to the maximum extent possible; and (b) Cite all ofthe statutes or regulations that prohibit you from complying fullywith this license. (c) describe the limitations and the code theyaffect. Such description must be included in the LEGAL filedescribed in Section 3.4 and must be included with alldistributions of the Source Code. Except to the extent prohibitedby statute or regulation, such description must be sufficientlydetailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understandit.5. Application of this License.This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer hasattached the notice in Exhibit A, and to related Covered Code.6. Versions of the License.6.1. New Versions.License Author may publish revised and/or new versions of theLicense from time to time. Each version will be given adistinguishing version number and shall be submitted toopensource.org for certification.6.2. Effect of New Versions.Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version ofthe License, You may always continue to use it under the terms ofthat version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code underthe terms of any subsequent version of the License published byInitial Developer. No one other than Initial Developer has theright to modify the terms applicable to Covered Code created underthis License.6.3. Derivative Works.If you create or use a modified version of this License, except inassociation with the required Developer Specific License describedin section 6.4, (which you may only do in order to apply it to codewhich is not already Covered Code governed by this License), youmust (a) rename Your license so that the phrases ``Open'',``OpenPL'', ``OPL'' or any confusingly similar phrase do not appearanywhere in your license and (b) otherwise make it clear that yourversion of the license contains terms which differ from the OpenPublic License. (Filling in the name of the Initial Developer,Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in Exhibit Ashall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications of thisLicense.)6.4. Required Additional Developer Specific LicenseThis license is a union of the following two parts that should befound as text files in the same place (directory), in the order ofpreeminence:[1] A Developer specific license.[2] The contents of this file OPL_1_0.TXT, stating the generallicensing policy of the software.In case of conflicting dispositions in the parts of this license,the terms of the lower-numbered part will always be superseded bythe terms of the higher numbered part.7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OFDEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ORNON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OFTHE COVERED CODE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVEDEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHERCONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR ORCORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PARTOF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDEREXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.8. TERMINATION.8.1 Termination upon BreachThis License and the rights granted hereunder will terminateautomatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to curesuch breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. Allsublicenses to the Covered Code, which are properly granted, shallsurvive any termination of this License. Provisions that, by theirnature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this Licenseshall survive.8.2. Termination Upon Litigation. If You initiate litigation byasserting a patent infringement claim (excluding declatory judgmentactions) against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the InitialDeveloper or Contributor against whom You file such action is referredto as "Participant") alleging that:(a) such Participant's Contributor Version directly orindirectly infringes any patent, then any and all rightsgranted by such Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participantterminate prospectively, unless if within 60 days after receiptof notice You either: (i) agree in writing to pay Participant amutually agreeable reasonable royalty for Your past and futureuse of Modifications made by such Participant, or (ii) withdrawYour litigation claim with respect to the Contributor Versionagainst such Participant. If within 60 days of notice, areasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not mutuallyagreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claimis not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to Youunder Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at theexpiration of the 60 day notice period specified above.(b) any software, hardware, or device, other than suchParticipant's Contributor Version, directly or indirectlyinfringes any patent, then any rights granted to You by suchParticipant under Sections 2.1(b) and 2.2(b) are revokedeffective as of the date You first made, used, sold,distributed, or had made, Modifications made by thatParticipant.8.3. If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participantalleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly orindirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such asby license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patentinfringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licensesgranted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be takeninto account in determining the amount or value of any payment orlicense.8.4. In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above, allend user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers)which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunderprior to termination shall survive termination.9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL THE INITIALDEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE,OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY OTHERPERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGESOF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OFGOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY ANDALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVEBEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OFLIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURYRESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAWPROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THEEXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SOTHAT EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.The Covered Code is a ``commercial item,'' as that term is defined in48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of ``commercial computersoftware'' and ``commercial computer software documentation,'' as suchterms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995),all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only thoserights set forth herein.11. MISCELLANEOUS.This section was intentionally left blank. The contents of thissection are found in the corresponding addendum described above.12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.Except in cases where another Contributor has failed to comply withSection 3.4, You are responsible for damages arising, directly orindirectly, out of Your utilization of rights under this License,based on the number of copies of Covered Code you made available, therevenues you received from utilizing such rights, and other relevantfactors. You agree to work with affected parties to distribute withInitial Developer responsibility on an equitable basis.EXHIBIT A.Text for this Exhibit A is found in the corresponding addendum,described in section 6.4 above, text file provided by the InitialDeveloper. This license is not valid or complete with out thatfile.EXHIBIT B.Text for this Exhibit B is found in the corresponding addendum,described in section 6.4 above, text file provided by the InitialDeveloper. This license is not valid or complete with out thatfile.